docs: Add data types documentation (#595)
manzt/anywidget: docs/src/pages/en/jupyter-widgets-the-good-parts.mdx

</blockquote>

## Data Types

A common misconception about widgets is that they only support
JSON-serializable data. However, the [Jupyter Widgets Messaging
Protocol](https://github.com/jupyter-widgets/ipywidgets/blob/main/packages/schema/messages.md)

> supports custom binary data as well. **anywidget** and `ipywidgets`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
supports custom binary data as well. Both **anywidget** and `ipywidgets`
```

automatically pack and unpack custom binary data from otherwise
JSON-serializable builtins (e.g., `dict`, `list`, `set`, etc.) when (de)serializing

> the model state. This ensures that you can safely pass binary data to the front

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the model state. This ensures that you can safely pass binary data to (and from) the front
```

end without additional overhead (e.g., converting to JSON or base64 encoding).

> Here's a summary of how Python data types are mapped to JavaScript types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a summary of how Python data types are mapped to JavaScript types (and vice versa):
```

```python
class Widget(anywidget.AnyWidget):
    _esm = """
    function render({ model, el }) {
      console.log(model.get("my_str"));    // "Hello, World!"
      console.log(model.get("my_float"));  // 3.14
      console.log(model.get("my_int"));    // 42
      console.log(model.get("my_bool"));   // true
      console.log(model.get("my_dict"));   // { foo: "bar", bar: 42 }
      console.log(model.get("my_list"));   // [ "foo", "bar", 42 ]
      console.log(model.get("my_set"));    // [ "foo", "bar", 42 ]
      console.log(model.get("my_bytes"));  // DataView(13)
    }
    export default { render };
    """
    my_str = traitlets.Unicode("Hello, World!").tag(sync=True)
    my_float = traitlets.Float(3.14).tag(sync=True)
    my_int = traitlets.Int(42).tag(sync=True)
    my_bool = traitlets.Bool(True).tag(sync=True)
    my_dict = traitlets.Dict({"foo": "bar", "bar": 42}).tag(sync=True)
    my_list = traitlets.List(["foo", "bar", 42]).tag(sync=True)
    my_set = traitlets.Set({"foo", "bar", 42}).tag(sync=True)
    my_bytes = traitlets.Bytes(b"Hello, World!").tag(sync=True)
```

The specific traitlets above just provide validation on the Python side.

> Alternatively, you can just use `traitlets.Any` to avoid validation, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use `traitlets.Any` to avoid validation, and
```

Minimizing "just"s

> the data will sill be serialized to the front end according to the table above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the data will still be serialized to the front end according to the table above.
```

```python
class Widget(anywidget.AnyWidget):
    _esm = """
    function render({ model, el }) {
      model.on("change:whatever", () => {
        console.log(model.get("whatever"));
      })
    }
    export default { render };
    """
    whatever = traitlets.Any().tag(sync=True)

w = Widget()
w
```

```py
w.whatever = "Hello, World!"            # "Hello, World!"
w.whatever = 3.14                       # 3.14
w.whatever = 42                         # 42
w.whatever = True                       # true
w.whatever = {"foo": "bar", "bar": 42}  # { foo: "bar", bar: 42 }
w.whatever = ["foo", "bar", 42]         # [ "foo", "bar", 42 ]
w.whatever = {"foo", "bar", 42}         # [ "foo", "bar", 42 ]
w.whatever = b"Hello, World!"           #  DataView(13)
```

## Custom Serialization

> A custom serializer for a trait can be defined by implementing `to_json` hook
> on the trait metadata, which must return one of the types listed in the [Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom serializer for a trait can be defined in the form of a `to_json` hook
that is passed as trait metadata. The hook must return one of the types listed in the [Data
```

Types](#data-types) table.

For example, let's serialize a `pathlib.Path` to it's file contents:

```python
import pathlib

> def path_to_json(path: pathlib.Path, widget: anywidget.AnyWidget):

Reviewer: It seems like the widget argument is not used in the function body - perhaps add a comment if there is a reason behind the function signature

Author: Good idea. I'm actually not sure why it's there (ipywidgets thing), I guess if you needed some other widget state/method for the serialization. But with Python you need to implement the full signature otherwise the caller will get an error.

    return {
      "name": path.name,
      "contents": path.read_bytes(),
    }

class Widget(anywidget.AnyWidget):
    _esm = """
    function render({ model, el }) {
      console.log(model.get("my_path"));  // { name: "example.txt", contents: DataView(13) }
    }
    export default { render };
    """
    my_path = traitlets.Instance(pathlib.Path).tag(sync=True, to_json=path_to_json)

Widget(my_path=pathlib.Path("example.txt"))
```

The `to_json` hook is called whenever the `Widget.my_path` changes, and the
return value is sent to the front end.

A more complex serialization example might be to serialize a `pandas.DataFrame`
to the [Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/#) format or a `numpy` array to

> its underlying bytes. Several [community examples](./community) should serve as
> a good starting point to learn about more advanced use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its underlying bytes. Several [community examples](./community) should serve as
good starting points to learn about more advanced use cases.
```
